http://www.bbc.com/news/politics

http://www.bbc.com/news/uk-politics-38319342

http://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-38328273

They will have dinner at the European Council summit in Brussels amid tensions over the handling of talks.
Downing Street said Mrs May had not sought to be present at the dinner and the meeting showed the EU was facing up to the reality that the UK was leaving.
It comes as the UK government plays down a suggestion that negotiating a UK-EU trade deal could take 10 years.
The BBC understands the UK's senior diplomat in the EU warned ministers that the European consensus was that a deal might not be done until the early to mid-2020s.
Arriving in Brussels, Mrs May was asked about the 10-year claim, but concentrated her answer on the subject of immigration, which is what the EU leaders are focusing on during a chunk of their one-day summit.
She added that a smooth UK exit from the EU was "not just in our interests, it's in the interests of the the rest of Europe as well".
Despite her absence from the dinner, Downing Street said Mrs May would play a full role in talks on other issues such as Syria.
This was echoed by European Parliament president Martin Schulz, who told the 28 leaders the UK would still enjoy the "rights and benefits" of EU membership while still fulfilling its "duties".
The timing of this dinner is a diary convenience.
Getting 27 world leaders round one table isn't easy, especially when a number of them are fighting for political survival at home.
So, while together in Brussels anyway for the summit, Chancellor Angela Merkel, President Francois Hollande et al agreed to stay a bit longer to talk Article 50, the by-now long-awaited triggering by the UK of formal Brexit talks, that Mrs May promises early next year.
Dinner tonight, my sources tell me, will be all about procedure.
The EU27 (as the leaders minus the UK now call themselves) will formally re-confirm the European Commission as the lead Brexit negotiator for the whole European Union.
Make no mistake, in such a complex and politically important process, Germany, France and other EU countries will keep a very close eye on the Commission but they know it is the only EU institution with the manpower, the expertise (it leads all EU trade negotiations) and a legal mandate (as so-called guardian of EU Treaties) for detailed negotiations.
So much for Brexit procedure; as for content over tonight's nibbles, my sources insist there's little to discuss until the UK government makes a firm commitment to the kind of Brexit it wants.
At the summit the leaders are discussing controlling mass migration into Europe, the EU's relationship with Ukraine, co-operation with Nato and economic matters.
The UK is to send a further 40 officials to Greece to try and speed up asylum claims from Iraqis, Afghans and Eritreans arriving there in an effort to deter others from coming.
There are already 70 UK caseworkers "experienced" in dealing with the return of asylum-seekers taking part in the trial scheme.
The UK is pressing for more EU-wide action to tackle economic migration at its source, working with countries such as Libya and Egypt to help control their borders.
Mrs May has also been holding bilateral meetings with the leaders of Latvia and Lithuania as well as the president of the European Parliament, Martin Schulz.
The UK is still a member of the EU, even during the Brexit process
One of the issues to be discussed by the 27 non-UK EU leaders is who will lead their negotiating team, amid tensions between the different EU institutions. It is expected to be former EU Commissioner Michel Barnier who is in charge of the European Commission's Brexit team.
Former Belgian prime minister Guy Verhofstadt, who is leading the European Parliament's Brexit taskforce, claimed it could start separate negotiations with the UK unless EU leaders take "its role seriously".
He warned the European Commission not to "sideline" the Parliament.
A Downing Street spokeswoman said the EU must decide how it would organise itself and that there would be no British observers nor officials present at the dinner.
"It shows they are facing up to the reality that the UK is leaving the EU, that we are going to be triggering Article 50 by the end of March," she said.
"That means they are going to need to know how they are going to handle the process where they have got to work out the position of the 27."
Mrs May spoke to the new Italian prime minister Paolo Gentiloni on Wednesday. She has already held face-to-face talks with 23 EU leaders to brief them on the UK's intentions after June's referendum vote to leave the EU.
The prime minister also spoke to Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council, who confirmed she would update the rest of the EU on the UK's preparations.
On Wednesday, her Brexit Secretary David Davis said the UK would not spell out its negotiating aims in more detail until February at the earliest and nothing "hazardous" would be included which could jeopardise the potential outcome.
He said he had not ruled out the need for temporary transitional arrangements once the UK leaves to help businesses adjust but only "if this was necessary".
A senior EU official said that, by the end of the summit, the 27 would be "procedurally prepared" for the negotiations and there was a consensus that although the process would be led by the Commission it would be "controlled" by the member states.
It said the 27 were sticking to the principle of "no negotiation without notification", meaning talks could only begin once the UK triggered Article 50.
Mr Barnier, who has warned the UK it will not be able to "cherry pick" elements of EU membership it wishes to retain, has been taking his own soundings with EU leaders.
Hungarian officials told the BBC that they hoped the shape of the UK's future relationship with the EU could be negotiated in tandem with the terms of its exit and that some form of transitional agreement would be needed.
The summit could see tensions over the EU's agreement with Turkey to cut illegal migration, attempts to forge closer links with Ukraine and the situation in Syria, with the UK pushing for a clearer position on access for humanitarian assistance and to hold combatants in the conflict accountable for any war crimes committed.
EU leaders will also hold a joint session with Nato boss Jens Stoltenberg, amid calls from US President-elect Donald Trump for EU members to do more to pull their weight.











Ministers will let local authorities bring forward council tax rises, and money cut from a housing scheme will be spent on social care instead.
The government said it would create a "sustainable" system for everyone who needs social care.
But the Local Government Association said the measures "fall well short".
LGA chairman Lord Porter said an "urgent injection of genuinely new additional government funding" was needed.

He said the council tax change would help some areas in the short-term but not be "anywhere near enough" to relieve pressure on the sector, adding that it would "add an extra financial burden on already struggling households".
He said changes to the New Homes Bonus, which rewards councils for building new homes, were "not new money but a redistribution of funding already promised to councils".
Communities Secretary Sajid Javid unveiled the measures as he set out the local government finance settlement in the Commons.
He said the settlement, which governs how councils in England will be funded, "recognises the cost of delivering adult social care and makes more funding available sooner".
Mr Javid told MPs the two measures would mean £900m extra for local authorities over the next two years to fund social care services.
But the cash was described as "a drop in the ocean" by the Care and Support Alliance of charities, while the president of the Society of Local Authority Chief Executives said: "Simply robbing Peter to pay Paul will not tackle a systemic funding problem."

On Wednesday, it emerged the government would offer councils an increase in the extra council tax they can impose to cover social care costs.
This was confirmed by Mr Javid, who said local authorities would be permitted to increase council tax by up to 6% over two years, ringfenced for social care, with a maximum of 3% each year.
The 6% previously had to be spread over three years. A 1% increase would raise an estimated £200m, although the effect would vary across the country.


In total, about £19.7bn will be spent on social care in England this year.
Mr Javid added that more money was "not the only answer", saying some councils needed to work harder to reduce delays in discharging people from hospital beds caused by a lack of available social care.
Responding to Mr Javid, shadow communities and local government minister Gareth Thomas said the local government settlement would "leave people paying high taxes for worse public services".
He urged the government to reconsider a planned corporation tax cut in order to plug the social care funding gap.
Conservative MP Sarah Wollaston, who chairs the Commons Health Select Committee, welcomed the government measures but said they did not go far enough to address the increase in demand, urging ministers to start cross-party talks "urgently".
Former health minister and Lib Dem MP Norman Lamb, who has been calling for more investment in adult social care, described Mr Javid's statement as "feeble".
But the government says it is investing in social care through its Better Care Fund, as well as taking steps to more closely integrate health and social care provision.
Council tax accounts for only about half of local authority income - the rest coming from central grants, which are being cut, and business rates, which are volatile - so it is unclear by how much care budgets will rise.

The numbers of elderly people going without care, paying for it themselves or relying on family and friends currently outstrip those getting council help by four to one.
The head of the NHS in England has suggested free bus passes and pension benefits for older people may have to be reconsidered to address the problems facing social care.
Appearing before MPs on Thursday, Simon Stevens said a sweeping new "social contract" was needed setting out the "full range of services and needs that people have in retirement", predicated on the right for people to receive care in their homes.
"There is no point in saying to our parents 'yes you've got a free bus pass if you're not able to leave the house because you don't have the availability of a home help," he said.

Earlier France and Germany complained that the Minsk peace deal for Ukraine was still not being fulfilled.
Russia's military interventions - first in Ukraine, then in Syria - are high on the EU summit agenda.
But Italy and Slovakia want an easing of sanctions that have cost EU exporters billions of euros.
The Brussels summit is focusing on the crises in Europe's neighbourhood - the destruction of Aleppo and exodus of Syrian refugees, migrant pressure from Africa and Ukraine's conflict with Russia.
Russia's annexation of Ukraine's Crimea region in 2014 triggered the first round of sanctions.


They have been ratcheted up, targeting Russian arms exporters, banks and individuals - many of them close to President Vladimir Putin - blamed for the pro-Russian insurgency in Ukraine.
But this summit will also be remembered for its new language on ties with Ukraine - setting limits to EU support.
The far-reaching EU-Ukraine Association Agreement was stalled by a Dutch referendum in April, when Dutch voters rejected it.

So the leaders addressed Dutch anxieties with a new, legally binding EU text. "The Agreement does not confer on Ukraine the status of a candidate country for accession to the Union, nor does it constitute a commitment to confer such status to Ukraine in the future," it said.
"The EU will not offer Ukrainians the right to reside and work in the EU, nor offer EU military assistance. Any such help is a matter for individual governments."

After a late lunch the leaders moved on to EU defence and security co-operation. They want to strengthen EU-Nato links in key areas, including "hybrid threats" - such as cyber-attacks - and maritime security.
Poland and the Baltic members - Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania - have not only urged the EU to support Ukraine, but also voiced alarm over Russia's heightened military presence in the Baltic.
Russia is accused of "provocative" air patrols and missile deployments in the strategic Kaliningrad region.
The EU Commission has put forward a "European Defence Action Plan", envisaging much more pooling of EU defence capabilities.
The draft summit conclusions say this defence roadmap will be developed speedily in 2017.
The Commission says European defence is too fragmented and wasteful. It criticises the duplication - the EU has 19 types of armoured infantry fighting vehicle, compared with one in the US.
UK warning
The UK has warned that joint EU military efforts must not duplicate Nato, and it is strongly opposed to the idea of a European army. Such a proposal is not on the table, but the EU is discussing closer military co-operation, ahead of the UK's Brexit negotiations.
An added worry for the EU is US President-elect Donald Trump's warning that Europe must spend more on defence. Some EU countries fall short of Nato targets for defence spending.
The EU Commission says "the EU's security situation has deteriorated significantly".
"We are facing multiple crises - there are fires in every corner, and not just in Europe's corners," EU Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker told German ZDF TV.
One such corner is Turkey, struggling with 2.7m Syrian refugees - far more than in any EU country.
The EU sees its controversial March deal with Turkey as a model for similar deals in Africa.

Since March the numbers of migrants coming ashore in Greece has fallen dramatically, but Turkey accuses the EU of blocking its EU ambitions and failing to meet funding pledges.
Meanwhile, Italy says record numbers of African migrants have reached its shores this year. Nigeria and Eritrea are the top countries of origin. Dire poverty drives many towards Europe.
The suffering of Syrian civilians in devastated Aleppo overshadowed the one-day summit.
"Europe must make its voice heard," French President Francois Hollande said, condemning the bombardment by Syrian government forces and Russian warplanes.
As the leaders met, a bus convoy began taking desperate civilians to safety, out of the city's besieged rebel-held area.
EU foreign affairs chief Federica Mogherini called for "a true political transition in Damascus". She said it must be "inclusive... it cannot be built on the ruins of Aleppo or other cities".