https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2016/dec/15/tech-industry-wont-save-us-donald-trump-excesses

https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2016/dec/15/interest-rates-trump-budget-yellen

https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2016/dec/15/womens-rights-list-of-progressive-priorities-feminism

Swamp monsters are about to take over the White House, and the consequences for the environment are terrifying. Tech millionaires are known for making lofty promises on climate. Now that they’ve jumped into the bed with Trump, they’ll be quick to say they can “disrupt” the administration from within. That’s nonsense.

At a meeting in New York on Wednesday, Trump gathered a slew of industry all-stars – including Uber’s Travis Kalanick, Facebook’s Sheryl Sandberg and Apple’s Tim Cook – to talk jobs and economic development. Among the more surprising faces at the table was Elon Musk, the media darling and renewable energy magnate who criticized Trump during the campaign, and has long raised alarm bells about the potentially disastrous impacts of man-made climate change. 

Now, Musk looks poised to become part of a small but growing group of green-tech millionaires willing to work with Trump. Musk had an intimate meeting with just Trump and Cook. He’ll also join Kalanick and JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon on Trump’s Strategic and Policy Forum. 

He’s not the only one who thinks Trump can be reasoned with. Al Gore – now making a modest fortune as a green-tech investor – was optimistic about the potential for finding “common ground” with Trump on climate following a recent meeting with him. “[I]n this energy space,” Bill Gates said after his own meeting with Trump, “there can be a very upbeat message that [Trump’s] administration [is] going to organize things, get rid of regulatory barriers, and have American leadership through innovation.”

While “innovation” may help Musk, Gore and Gates turn a profit, it alone won’t save the planet from Donald Trump – or his cabinet picks. Exxon CEO Rex Tillerson is poised to become the United States’ chief diplomat. In line to head the Department of Energy is former Texas governor Rick Perry, who sits on the board of the company behind the Dakota Access pipeline and once suggested the BP Deepwater Horizon disaster was an “act of God”.

Still, the rosy views coming from these “eco-optimists” is tempting. As federal regulatory agencies face threats from inside and out, a simple and market-friendly solution would seem to offer an easy out for a problem as big as climate change.

If inventors could simply unlock the potential of clean energy technology – through tax incentives and a healthy injection of start-up capital – solar panels and wind turbines could proliferate, making dirty fuels obsolete.

For such thinking, Musk, Gates and Gore have all been hailed as saviors of a sort, quirky geniuses who offer a pragmatic and optimistic approach to solving the climate crisis – not to mention a whole lot of capital. Leveraged effectively, they say, technology can create a world-saving “Breakthrough,” as the name of Gates and other billionaires’ new $1bn clean energy fund suggests.

But there’s one big problem with such an apparently quick and harmonious fix: the fossil fuel industry, along with its $5.3tn in subsidies and men on its payroll who are snapping up cabinet positions. There’s nothing inherent to an uptick in clean energy that means we’ll start digging up less fossil fuels. As climate scientists have been warning for years, that’s exactly what we need to do.

For just a one-in-three shot of keeping emissions below the 2C (3.6F) target outlined in the Paris agreement, wealthy nations like the US need to fully decarbonize their energy systems by 2035.

In other words, we need to phase fossil fuels out of our economy entirely within just 20 years – no pipelines, no drilling and no gas-powered cars. That’s not just a problem for the future, either. Simply burning fossil fuels is already killing 5 million people each year. 

Granted, market signals and technological innovations are a critical part of transitioning away from fossil fuels. But the main task of climate policy over the next four years is no different than what it was before Trump was elected: challenging the power of the fossil fuel industry on all fronts. 

That now entails challenging the administration itself, and defending agencies like the EPA from the climate deniers and free market zealots now in charge of them. There’s no path to a low-carbon future without strict regulations on coal, oil and natural gas. And every signal from Trump’s transition team points to a free reign for fossil fuel developers, in the United States and around the world.


Musk, Gore, Gates and the other so-called climate champions who choose to collaborate with Trump should beware. They will be guilty of their own form of climate denial if they can’t see the glaring conflict between what he says behind closed doors and the havoc his cabinet threatens to wreak on the planet. Left to their own devices, Trump and his Silicon Valley allies will just slap more Teslas and solar panels onto a burning planet.


How do you win elections? Shellshocked Democrats suddenly find themselves grasping for answers to this simple question. But there’s a simple answer, time tested by tinpot strongmen the world over: build stuff and put your name on it. 

I’ve seen mobbed-up politicians in Latin America win elections from jail, having slapped their names on everything from trash cans to water treatment plants to entire towns. Any American exceptionalism hubris about the US being immune to this sort of thing should have been dashed by this election. President-elect Trump isn’t so great at some of the fundamentals of running a business, like avoiding bankruptcy, but one thing he excels at is building stuff and putting his name on it. 

Trump promises Americans $550bn in infrastructure spending when he takes office. It’s a bald-faced attempt to buy his way to a second term, and it’s likely to work. His strategist Steve Bannon, the Riefenstahl-inspired new Karl Rove, has boasted of being the man behind the plan.

“With negative interest rates throughout the world, it’s the greatest opportunity to rebuild everything. Shipyards, ironworks, get them all jacked up. We’re just going to throw it up against the wall and see if it sticks.” Whether it sticks or not, you can be sure there will be one thing all of those shipyards and ironworks will feature, beginning with a capital T.

Normally half a trillion in public spending is the kind of thing that Republicans should balk at. But with Trump giving congressional Republicans their wishlist, beginning with massive tax cuts for their top contributors, we can expect little checking or balancing from Capitol Hill, even if the only thing that will get jacked up is the deficit. So it may be a surprise that the first signs of resistance to Trump’s program are from that famously cautious, hidebound institution, the Federal Reserve.

Granted, it’s a cautious resistance. On Wednesday, the Federal Reserve raised its key interest rate by 0.25%. Modest as it is, it’s the first rate hike in a year, and the central bank currently plans three or more hikes in 2017. It signals the end of the free money era, now going on eight years, that underpinned the financial crisis recovery.

In her announcement, Fed chair Janet Yellen hinted that this move was in anticipation of a new period of profligate spending by the Trump administration. For the first time in years, she said fiscal policy is “not obviously needed to provide stimulus”, expecting that stimulus to come from Congress via spending.

Yellen warned Congress of the likelihood of Trump’s spending plan driving up prices and an already high debt-to-GDP ratio last month. Trump placed Yellen at the top of his enemies list long before the election, accusing her during the campaign of being “highly political” with monetary policy, and propping up a “false economy”.

In theory, these rate hikes could make borrowing costly enough to cause Congress to think twice. Probably, though, the promise of a permanent Republican majority in the midwest will dissolve whatever shreds of ideological principle remain in the party.

The joke should be on the Democrats, who for decades have resisted the kind of massive public-works spending that might have secured them a permanent majority, for fear of being labeled populist. Trump was never afraid of the label, and has reaped the rewards.

However, the real joke will be on American workers, who were sold a jobs package which, on closer inspection, turns out to be a scam. Trump’s infrastructure plan, according to Obama official Ronald Klain, “doesn’t directly fund new roads, bridges, water systems or airports” but instead “provides tax breaks to private-sector investors who back profitable constructions projects [which] might already be planned or even underway”. It’s not a jobs or infrastructure plan at all, but “a massive corporate welfare plan for contractors”.

Regardless, American taxpayers will be left with the bill for a $550bn giveaway to Trump’s corporate cronies. In return, Americans will see few new jobs, higher prices and, thanks to a newly hawkish Fed, slower growth and costlier loans and mortgages. There’s a word for this: stagflation, and it once cost the Democrats the White House for 12 years. 

Yet Trump will slap his name on a few bridges and tunnels, and point to the handful of jobs he “saves” for every thousand he loses. And when labor leaders cry fraud, he’ll sic his followers on them, just as he did with steelworkers union president Chuck Jones, who got death threats for calling out another scam, Trump’s Carrier deal.

It’s another lesson Trump learned that the Democrats never did: say anything loudly and long enough, and eventually people will believe you. That goes for being a jobs president too.

If you were concerned that forced funerals for fetuses and zygotes wasn’t quite horrific enough, rejoice! In the last week, Ohio has passed a law banning abortions after 20 weeks and Oklahoma wants to mandate that businesses post anti-abortion signs in women’s public restrooms.

In the wake of Trump’s win, reproductive rights opponents have not wasted a moment in their plan to roll back access to abortion and birth control. And, as has been the case for some time, these harmful policies are being presented as wins for women.

When Governor John Kasich of Ohio passed the 20-week ban, for example, he also vetoed a six-week ban – the hope being that the move would be seen as moderate in comparison. But 20 weeks is around the time that women find out about fetal abnormalities – a leading reason for later abortions. And while the Oklahoma plan is being touted by pro-life groups as a way to offer women “alternatives”, what it’s really doing is shaming women and requiring that businesses spend money on ideological propaganda. (Also, so much for the Republicans caring about women’s privacy in bathrooms!)

The research is clear: women suffer when you deny them access to birth control and abortion. In fact, despite anti-choice rhetoric to the contrary, the only kind of negative mental health impact that abortion has on women occurs when someone seeks out the procedure and is denied.

The challenge we have in front of us, though, is not just the danger of Trump’s administration or the emboldening of Republicans. In a time when bad news for progress is around every corner – as Slate writer Jamelle Bouie put it, “what disaster to write about today?” – we have to make that sure that women’s rights don’t get lost in the shuffle.

It wasn’t so long ago that gender and race were considered ancillary or distracting topics in progressive politics – a notion still being bandied about as people blame “identity politics” and “political correctness” for Trump’s win. If history is any indication, it won’t be long before we start hearing murmurings from so-called progressives that women should sacrifice working on issues that affect them in service of “the greater good”.

It’s vital that we not forget or lose the momentum feminism has had over the last decade, especially on reproductive rights. The stakes are just too high. Hundreds of thousands of American women have already sought out illegal abortions, in part because of state-level restrictions. And as the Affordable Care Act comes under fire, it could leave millions without coverage for contraception.

These are not small things, these are not side issues or special interests. Women’s ability to control their bodies and plan their family size is a human rights issue. And while we have a tremendous amount of work to do on so many fronts, Americans cannot afford to treat feminism and women’s progress as something that can be pushed aside for a time and picked up later. Let’s not allow our the fact that we’re overwhelmed to get the better of us – not now, and not for the next four years. 