http://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2016/12/15/obamacare-aca-repeal-replace-stories-column/95356656/

http://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2016/12/14/philippines-drugs-rodrigo-duterte-trump-editorials-debates/95347674/

http://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/2016/12/15/carrier-trump-jobs-crony-capitalism-column/95437832/


In policy and political debates, we often forget the human impact of weighty choices. Abstract numbers, ideological arguments, “he said, she said” talking points and outright falsehoods — these are the currency of our public discourse.

But elections and policies have real consequences in the everyday lives of ordinary families. As Congress considers repeal of the Affordable Care Act, we at the Center for American Progress (CAP) are collecting stories from people who would be affected. In some cases, their very lives are at stake.

Ohio resident Paula Chenevey, 52, was an uninsured massage therapist when she was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2012. The cancer metastasized to her brain and liver. In 2014, Ohio Republican Gov. John Kasich expanded the Medicaid program as a result of the Affordable Care Act, making her eligible for coverage. Since then, Paula has received lifesaving treatment: chemotherapy every three weeks, daily medication, MRIs every three months, CT scans every four months, and gamma knife treatments for recurring brain lesions. Her drugs cost: $28,000 every three weeks.

Although Paula’s life expectancy had been only 12 months to 18 months, her prognosis is now stable. She works part-time, volunteers and spends time with her children and grandchildren: “The ACA saved, and continues to save, my life. That is not an exaggeration. This treatment is keeping me alive.”

Namir Yedid, 35, a computer software entrepreneur, was diagnosed with a rare tumor in 2015. He required multiple surgeries to remove the tumor and a reconstruction of his chest. Luckily, he was covered by a plan offered through California’s health insurance marketplace and received tax credits to defray the cost. Without insurance coverage, which capped his out-of-pocket costs, medical bills exceeding $150,000 would have plunged him into bankruptcy.

Democrats failed to imagine the worst: Jason Sattler
Namir, who saw CAP's request for stories on Twitter, has been clear of cancer for one year, but he needs insurance to pay for follow-up care. He worries what might come next if the ACA is repealed. “As a self-employed entrepreneur, the ACA is the difference between financial ruin and the security of knowing I have good insurance,” he told us. For all the Republican talk about empowering entrepreneurs, said Namir, he would not have been able to start his own business without Obamacare.

Cameron Zeigler, 44, was recently diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease and dementia. He had a long career as a social worker in Roanoke, Va., but he became so sick that he had to stop working last May. When he left his employer, his COBRA premium was $1,300 a month and consumed his disability benefit. But he found a “gold” level plan through HealthCare.gov, the online ACA marketplace, for $450 per month without a subsidy.

Cameron takes six medications for dementia. Without them, he believes, he would be unable to care for himself, and he would become a danger to himself or others. He believes that he would likely end up in an institutional setting to keep him safe. “I love my home, my wife and my dog, and I cannot imagine having to live separately. My prognosis is not good, but Obamacare allows me to receive the care I need to be myself as long as possible. Without Obamacare, my illness will progress more rapidly until I die.”

Lisa Martin, 35, wanted to start her own website consulting business in Alexandria, Va., but was dependent on her employer’s health insurance. In 2014, a door opened: She could buy insurance through HealthCare.gov. Shortly after she purchased a policy and launched her company, she had a stroke at the age of 32. After seeing CAP's link on Twitter, she told us that without the ACA’s protections for people with pre-existing conditions, she knows that she would not be able to afford insurance: “I’m really scared. That stroke came out of nowhere. It can happen to anyone.”

These people are Democrats who say the ACA has figured in their presidential votes. But more than 20 million Americans of all political persuasions have insurance under the law, and many are terrified that they will lose a great source of peace of mind and financial security. Their fears are legitimate. Republicans promise that an eventual replacement plan will come, but only two or three years after repeal. In the meantime, as many experts across the political spectrum have cautioned, insurance companies will become skittish and either exit the markets or dramatically hike premiums to compensate for the uncertainty.

A strategy to repeal the ACA now and replace it later, then, will likely collapse the market for individual policies. As several conservative commentators have warned, this is not a winning political approach for Republicans.

More important, it will do nothing to assuage the fears of many hardworking Americans. President-elect Donald Trump promised to address their economic anxieties, but this repeal-then-replace strategy is only serving to stoke anxiety. The voices of Paula, Namir, Cameron and Lisa are calling out. Will Trump hear them?

Drug user Florjohn Cruz, 34, was fiddling with a transistor radio in his Manila home when, according to his family, plainclothes police barged in and gunned him down, his blood pooling near the family altar. Benjamin Visda, 43, left a family birthday celebration to visit a convenience store and was shot to death. Erika Angel Fernandez, 17, and Jericho Camitan, 23 — girlfriend and boyfriend — died together, their bullet-riddled bodies lying with trash in a darkened street of the capital.

They lost their lives in a campaign of annihilation that human rights investigators say has been sanctioned by Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte, who won a six-year term at the end of May by campaigning on a tough law-and-order platform. Preaching inflated figures on Philippine substance abuse, Duterte promised a vicious crackdown on drug trafficking and said he'd kill 100,000 criminals if necessary.

"It's going to be bloody," he said, and since he took office, it has been. An average of 36 Filipinos have died each day: petty criminals, drug addicts and misidentified innocents executed outside the judicial system by police or vigilantes. Many of them, like Cruz, turned themselves into the government after Duterte's election, seeking drug treatment. Apparently, their efforts only earmarked them for death.

A New York Times photo exposé graphically illustrated the carnage under the headline: "They are slaughtering us like animals." The photojournalist, Daniel Berehulak, wrote that he has covered wars and Ebola but found "a new level of ruthlessness" in the Philippines.

The bloody streets of Manila expose a very dark side to the populist fervor spreading across the globe —  a bitter lesson in the kind of extremism that can flow from appeals to base fear, even in a democracy.

This week, the Philippine National Police reported nearly 6,000 deaths linked to Duterte's war on drugs, with 2,000 people killed by police, the story usually being that the victims were resisting arrest. The others died at the hands of vigilantes, often by a tactic of two men on a motorcycle rolling up and opening fire.

Condemnations have rightly flowed from the United Nations and the Obama administration, though they only seem to incite the Philippines' 71-year-old leftist leader into a spate of profanity. He denies any role in the killings even as he urges death to those involved in drugs — "a classic case of criminal incitement to violence," says Brad Adams, executive director of the Asia division for Human Rights Watch.

Extrajudicial killings in the Philippines are not new, but there has been nothing on this scale seemingly encouraged, if not directly ordered, by the head of state. The United States needs to apply more pressure to end the violence. The Philippines has a long and very close relationship with America, which granted independence to the former colony in 1946. The Philippines receives $40 million a year in U.S. military funding, more than any other country in East Asia and the Pacific.

The problem can also be attacked by offering greater assistance to drug treatment efforts. "Nudge Duterte towards a more public health approach," argues Filipino author and political scientist Richard Javad Heydarian. The State Department says it's already moving to help improve justice institutions.

Duterte claimed this month that President-elect Donald Trump endorsed his war on drugs in a telephone conversation and wished him well. Asked to comment, the Trump transition office has not responded. The current administration, and the next one, have a moral obligation to promote the rule of law in our Pacific ally.

Is it really the job of government to make sure you have a job of your own?

No, it’s not. In fact, no matter what you hear from politicians looking for votes, it’s dangerous to even flirt with this line of thinking.

Although it’s also completely understandable. Maybe you’re out of work, or only working part-time. Maybe you’re unsure that the job you have now will be there in a year. It’s one of life’s cruelest ironies that, by the time we’ve put in the 20 years or so that it takes to master a given skill, we’re often considered past our prime and less employable.

I can empathize. As a newspaper journalist who has been on the job for a quarter century, I know what it’s like to be part of an industry that has fallen on hard times and struggles to survive in a landscape that is changing fast.

Our salvation will come from the private sector. It may not be easy, and we will probably have to learn new skills and maybe even go so far as to re-invent ourselves. We’ll definitely have to network, innovate and hustle.

But if you think you have problems now, just wait until you start looking to government to provide you with a paycheck. I’m not talking about what happens when you work for the government. I’m talking about what happens when you’re counting on the government to find you work.

Latinos met their match in Rust Belt: Ruben Navarrette
After all, what government gives, it can take away. Politicians get their power from making everyone else less powerful, and more dependent on government and what they can get from — you guessed it — politicians. When your livelihood becomes part of that, you belong to the people who are supposed to be representing you. And then you’ll vote however they say you need to vote to keep getting whatever it is you’re getting. Finally, no one owes you a job and when you lose sight of the fact that it’s your responsibility and not the government’s to make sure you’re gainfully employed, with all the benefits that this entails to both society and the individual, it kills incentive and feeds a sense of entitlement that hurts everyone.

Just don’t try telling that to the working-class white voters who live in those states that make up the so-called “blue wall” — Wisconsin, Ohio, Michigan and Pennsylvania. They helped put Donald Trump on a path to the White House. They see everyone else getting a government bailout, from banks to automakers. And they want a very individualized helping hand of their own.

These are people like the Trump supporter who I interviewed before the election. He was going to vote for the Republican, he said, because Trump was going to “get me a job.”

Or perhaps help someone keep a job. For about 800 employees of the Carrier air conditioner manufacturer company in Indiana, the holidays will be a little brighter now that the president-elect has — with help from Gov. Mike Pence, who also happens to be the vice president-elect — used tax incentives and the bully pulpit to keep those jobs in the United States rather than see them move to Mexico.

You might have expected more conservatives to have kicked up a fuss about an instance of government intervening in the private sector. But with the notable exception of former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin, who called the deal “crony capitalism,” the response was mostly muted.

In fact, Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas told The Weekly Standard that the deal was a good thing. “The American people are gratified to have an incoming president, an incoming administration, that will fight to keep jobs here in America and reduce the burdens on small businesses and job creators so that we see millions of new high-paying jobs and wages rising across the country,” said Trump's 2016 presidential rival.

That misses the point. There is nothing wrong with an administration that makes it a priority to create jobs, decrease the burdens on business, and maintain a robust economy.

The problem is when American workers demand that government do for them something they need to do for themselves: find a job.