http://learningenglish.voanews.com/a/fishermen-in-cambodia-hurt-by-new-dam-in-laos/3635749.html
http://learningenglish.voanews.com/a/christmas-spirit-tech/3636160.html
http://learningenglish.voanews.com/a/3638052.html


Fishermen on the Mekong River in Cambodia say they are being hurt by dams being built in Laos. They say they are catching fewer, and smaller, fish. The fishermen blame illegal fishing with electric nets, overfishing, climate change and drought.

Man Mat is the son of a fisherman. He says, “the fish are getting smaller and smaller. My father catches five to 15 kilograms a day when before it was 100 to 200 kilograms. In 10 years, there’ll be no more fish left.”

In 2012, officials in Laos announced plans to build the $3.8 billion Xayaburi dam although scientists and environmental activists opposed the project. The officials then announced they would build a $300 million dam.

Last month, the government of Laos decided to build a third dam in the country’s north. The $1.88 billion project would be part of a plan to sell electricity to neighboring countries -- especially China. China also has built dams across the Mekong River in its territory.

The fisheries research and development newsletter “Catch and Culture” reports on fishing in the Mekong area. It says the total fish harvest from the Mekong River and its lower delta was valued at $11 billion in 2015. About 70 million people depend on those fish. Their food security is a major cause of tension between Cambodia and Vietnam.

Over the last 20 years, the number of people who depend upon the Mekong River and its delta area has increased by at least 10 million people. This has increased the demand for fish and has led to something scientists call “fishing down.” That is when large fish are no longer being caught. They are being replaced by smaller fish that fishermen used to reject and return to the river.

VOA spoke to two fishermen who said they used to catch up to 300 kilograms of fish a day, but now they catch about 20 kilograms if they are lucky.

Laos, however, says it will not change its plans. The country wants to build 11 dams across the Mekong River and 123 across the country.

I’m Christopher Jones-Cruise.


Christmas is December 25. Many people celebrate the holiday around the world with special food, music and gift exchanges.

But the holiday can also be very busy and difficult. Sometimes it is hard to get into the spirit of Christmas. What can you do?

Turn to tech!

Apps, websites, videos, music and more can help create a festive mood and spread the cheer!

Nothing spreads good cheer better than helping others. Start a holiday tradition with Random Acts of Christmas Kindness, or RACK. RACKing does not have to be costly; the best gifts are often those that take the most thought and no money at all.

For inspiration, check out ?Pinterest RACK boards and RACK pins.

This RACK Pinterest board has pins including RACKS for the elderly, kids and more.

Also check out RACK webpages to get ideas for helping others. Baton RougeMoms.com has one.

Another, the Still Being Molly website, has a free RACK Advent calendar to download. The calendar is filled with ideas to spread cheer: RACK Advent Calendar 2016.

And, the Kiddie Matters website has 30 ideas for random acts of kindness you can do with children.

Real estate website Zillow has a virtual tour of Santa's house at the North Pole. Head to Santa's House on Zillow and click on the video to see where Santa lives.

The page includes information that can be found on Zillow pages about real houses, like age and number of rooms. You can also look at photos of the inside. Santa's house is not for sale, but you can still take the tour!

Holiday music can get you in a jolly spirit. The Christmas Radio app can help you find seasonal songs.

You can choose tunes from more than 100 Internet radio stations and add favorites to your Spotify playlists. The app also lets you choose favorite themes and background colors. Fall asleep to Christmas music with the sleep timer.

Music genres include Christmas Pop, Rock, Classical, Instrumental, Jazz and Smooth. The app is free with in-app purchases available.

Christmas Radio is available in the Google Play store.

The World Radio Stations Christmas iPhone and iPad App is a free app that broadcasts in ten languages from 97 radio stations around the world. Search for music by language or by genre, such as jazz, classical or music for children.

World Radio Stations Christmas is available in the iTunes App Store.

Spotify is filled with Christmas playlists. Search for "Christmas music" to find playlists or create your own.

Here is a Christmas music Spotify playlist to get you started:

Each year the PNP website lets users create a free video with their gift wish lists for Santa. The videos are fun for children and adults. They can include the name of the person, the gift they want, photos, and whether they have been naughty or nice.

Head to the PNP website to create a Santa video or download the PNP Santa app to create a video from a phone or tablet.

To create the video, add a photo of yourself or someone else. Then add information about what you or they would like as a Christmas present. PNP will use it to create a personal video for free in just about one minute.

After you create a video you can share it with others via Facebook and email.

Fans of Christmas and Facebook stickers will enjoy adding Christmas stickers to their Facebook messages. Add stickers such as Charlie Brown Christmas to messages you send on the Facebook website or in the Messenger app.

Use the free stickers in Facebook messages to help your friends find the holiday spirit themselves!

I’m Dorothy Gundy. And I’m Rick Hindman.

A federal jury in the United States has Dylann Roof guilty of killing nine people at a South Carolina church in June 2015.

The white supremacist was found guilty of 33 charges, including nine hate crimes resulting in death and three hate crimes in an attempt to kill.

Government lawyers said the 22-year-old Roof targeted the black church members during a Bible study meeting. The prosecutors said Roof waited until the church members closed their eyes to pray before shooting them. They called the shooter hateful and cowardly.

Three people survived the shooting at the Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal church.

The trial lasted a week. Jurors announced their decision after discussing the case for just two hours. The same jurors will return to the court in early January to decide if Roof should be executed or sentenced to life in prison.

I’m Caty Weaver.