https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2016/dec/15/rupert-murdoch-sky-tv-leveson

https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2016/dec/15/pale-stale-males-blamed-brexit-trump

https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2016/dec/14/mps-aleppo-british-bombs-aleppo-syria-2013

If Rupert Murdoch was not a suitable person in 2011 to run a television company, nothing since has made him more so, as he renews his failed bid to take over the other 61% of Sky. Last time a unanimous Commons vote stopped him, after then culture secretary Jeremy Hunt’s office was exposed for backroom dealings with Murdoch’s people. Now we wait to see whether the current culture secretary, Karen Bradley, will refer the bid to Ofcom, the regulator with power to prevent over-mighty media conglomerations.

Murdoch’s “most humble day of my life” was just that – only for one day. Rebekah Brooks is back in charge of News UK, to hell with the victims of hacking and other outrages in papers she oversaw. Found not guilty of complicity in industrial-scale abuse of privacy and destruction of lives, the only conclusion is that she is the most incompetent executive ever to be re-employed, after recklessly paying out mountainous expenses for unknown purposes. She lost the company £300m and hundreds of jobs, took a £16m payoff and now is back, while some colleagues went to jail. The News of the World has returned as the Sun on Sunday.

Murdoch’s £11.2bn bid was sneaked out to the stock exchange late on Friday, with parliament empty and MPs on trains (if they could find one) to their constituencies. News management is his business. So is management of politicians and regulators worldwide. He has shuffled his companies so that News UK, running his Times, Sunday Times, Sun and Sunday Sun empire, accounting for 40% of newspaper readership, is separated from 21st Century Fox. But as they are all run by his family, the regulator should surely regard them as one.

Murdoch’s bid seizes Sky on the cheap, after the plunge in the pound due to the Brexit vote. How apt. It’s probable that had Murdoch never thundered into the UK to dominate its media, the referendum might never have happened. Had he never launched the toxic-toned Fox News in the US, Donald Trump might not be president-elect. The “great man” theory of history has its limits, but Murdoch’s malign global influence is an extraordinary example of the power of one great villain.

Asked why he has been, from the very start, so vehemently set against the EU, Murdoch famously replied: “When I go into Downing Street, they do what I say; when I go to Brussels, they take no notice.” The reason he needs “notice” is that the success of his empire has relied on avoiding tax and regulation by using his bully-pulpit to frighten politicians into acquiescence. It works. He could only launch Sky because Margaret Thatcher persuaded the EU to change laws on content.

Past prime ministers know his power: it was good to see Gordon Brown weigh in yesterday with a letter to the culture secretary demanding the takeover be delayed until after the second part of the Leveson inquiry is carried out into corruption of the police and officials at Murdoch-owned newspapers. It’s feared Bradley will never trigger Leveson 2.

John Major in his autobiography said he knew he was a dead man walking as soon as Murdoch gave him the thumbs down. Eager to assuage his wrath, he passed the 1996 Broadcasting Act to gift Murdoch the digital universe, and Tony Blair’s opposition just as eagerly voted for it. How cravenly Blair kowtowed in the run-up to 1997 and after. David Cameron, in the run-up to his 2010 election, shockingly announced he would abolish Ofcom, when it broke up Sky’s monopolistic control of football and movies. Then he brought Murdoch’s Andy Coulson into the heart of government.

During Theresa May’s 36-hour “flying” visit to New York in September, she found time to call on Murdoch. It would not be wild to guess they discussed Brexit, his newspapers’ coverage of any EU treaty she strikes – and his desire to take over Sky. A deal? We shall see. And would he keep to his side of any bargain?

The response to 21st Century Fox taking over Sky has been alarmingly muted, so far – though Tom Watson and Ed Miliband put up a spirited Commons objection. There is a rhythm to news stories, a time and tide Murdoch well understands: hacking Milly Dowler’s phone was beyond shocking, but that is yesterday’s news.

Maybe post-Trump, there is a listless acceptance that the world and its media will forever be dominated by corrupt business interests, fake news, climate denying, science denying, truth-devoid, fact-free emoto-news. The truth is what people can be made to feel it is, stirred by rampant fears and hatreds. Tolerance, balance, moderation, empathy with “others”, these are above all dull. They just don’t entertain.

If Fox does take over the heavily loss-making Sky News, the pressure will be to Foxify it, to turn it into a rightist views station not a news station. Already you can hear that drum beat from some people who should know better, not necessarily of the Murdoch right, suggesting that British rules for strict broadcasting neutrality make broadcast news too dull. The new media world of the internet, awash with vitriolic opinion, hot with argument, makes UK broadcasters look lame. Both sides complained bitterly about the BBC’s referendum coverage, seeing bias everywhere, resulting in a painfully cautious on-the-one-hand-the-earth-is-flat, on-the-other-hand-it’s-round, too early to tell approach. Letting Fox own Sky will start the campaign to undermine the very notion of impartiality and accuracy. We should never let our impartiality rules go: they make BBC news the most trusted around the world.

The BBC-wrecking Murdoch press was sinisterly quiet during the BBC charter negotiations, knowing that in the then culture secretary John Whittingdale, they had their man. He ripped £700m from the heart of the BBC by obliging it to take on the cost of free TV licences for over-75s by 2020. In the list of six candidates to chair the BBC’s new, more powerful unitary board, appears William Shawcross, author of an admiring biography of Rupert Murdoch. His record of failing to defend the campaigning voice of charities as chair of the charity commission should send a chill down the spine of BBC supporters.

The culture secretary has to decide whether to trigger Leveson 2, and whether to refer the Murdoch bid to Ofcom. As was raised in shadow cabinet, here’s a prime target for Jeremy Corbyn – if nothing else, a man above suspicion – to call out any sign of yet more corruption of a UK government by this media thug. So let’s see him fight this corner on behalf of May’s “everyone”.

I am hideously white, and not a man but “male”. Being over 50, I suffer the added failing of being disgustingly old. Such are the routine humiliations of my group. The BBC was called hideously white by its former boss Greg Dyke, and the West End stage hideously white by Andrew Lloyd Webber. This week the Football Association was dismissed by critics as a bunch of “old white men”. Note that it is not the BBC or the theatre that is hideous, but their whiteness.

Fashion in collective abuse seeks comfort in crowds. In choosing “pale, stale males” (PSMs) for ritual contempt, identity politics has found a target that it hopes will confess its “guilt”. More recently the epithet “failed” has been added to explain the Brexit/Trump voters. These PSMs are further damned by being uneducated “left-behinders”, and therefore also dumb. They were thought so dumb it was suggested they vote again on Brexit, for having got it wrong first time.

Were someone such as I to take offence, demand redress or “protected space”, I would be bidden to shut up, get a life and not be so sensitive. I might plead, with Shylock: “Hath not a [pale, stale male] hands, organs, dimensions, senses, affections, passions? If you prick us, do we not bleed?” I might turn to Kant and universalise the judgment. What if I were to follow “hideously” with black, female, Jewish, Arab, obese, disabled or Welsh? Is the representation of black footballers in the Premier League (as opposed to the Football Association) “hideously black”?

The reality is that PMSs are expected to take all this in their stride. They were, after all, the old hegemons. They dished out discrimination; now they should accept a taste of their own medicine. (Or will someone protest that this is patronising: why should PSMs refuse to take offence, as does everyone else?) This is, of course, fair enough – except two wrongs do not make a right. Besides, identity liberalism is surely more than the politics of tit-for-tat. It is a straining after a sort of equality of treatment.

I have no quarrel with this week’s accusations levelled at the Football Association. A group of people with so little day-to-day experience of present-day sport cannot reasonably claim to oversee its governance. But the accusation was not of incompetence, misjudgment or personal venality. It was that the governors came from one tribe, of the “wrong” colour, sex and age. That was thought guilt enough. The critics did not attack a far worse footballing body, Fifa, presumably because it is heavily non-white.

I doubt there are many selection panels – I have sat on many – that do not instinctively mark down any PSM applicant. The chair begins: “Yes, he may the best candidate, but…” And the gods of discrimination look down from on high and wag a stern finger. “Old white males” cruise the jobcentres and head-hunters like ancient sharks, as if looking for a quiet beach on which to die.

We all agree that governing bodies should struggle to represent those they govern. This can be hard. Years of discrimination can deter desirable candidates from coming forward, whether as representatives or as independents. But overcoming victimisation has always depended on individuals ready to lead from the front. Fighting discrimination sometimes requires just that: fighting.

I am sure most white males can handle their new status as victims of “acceptable offence”, and even acknowledge there will be discrimination against them. Less robust will be the third group of the damned, those newcomers to political contempt: the elderly. This once-dignified badge of seniority is becoming synonymous with “narrow-minded”, “outdated” and “incipiently senile”. The elderly are bed-blockers, job-blockers, pension-drainers.

In his new book, The War on the Old, the English professor John Sutherland describes a culture of “demographic cleansing”, a “state-condoned campaign against the nation’s old”. How dare they vote for Brexit, and then expect the thrusting, dynamic young to keep them in old age. So strip their social care to the bone, and hang “Do not resuscitate” round their necks.

Sutherland is half right. These words creep into daily use to render the unacceptable tolerable. I remember at the National Trust being told it was “feared” that many of its new members were “over 50”. I could not see why this should cause such fright. In 15 years, half the population would be over 50 and a third over 60. It was good news. The young were busy, and would soon be old. The old were old for ever.

The trouble is that business courses in the 1990s taught marketing students to treat the elderly as dead meat. They were poor, stuck in their ways and stingy. Yet figures showed it was the young that were poor and lacked time to spend. The marketers were just out of date.

The median pound of consumer expenditure, according to Enders Analysis, is now spent by a household headed by someone who is almost 50. The strongest rise in discretionary household spending in recent years has been among the over-65s. Yet almost no advertising is directed at this age group, as if it suffered commercial leprosy. Advertisers hurl money at the internet, which reaches a tiny minority of the over-45s, who prefer to read or watch television. Ostracising the elderly is not so much cruel as stupid.

Where I agree with Sutherland is that implicit discrimination against the “stales” is now at the root of the politics of social care. If more and more over-60s are in work, it must make sense somehow to get them to look after one another. Care of the elderly by the elderly – by retraining the over-50s to work in social care – must be rethought as a virtuous circle, as a human resource.

Otherwise the stales, like the pale males, will have their revenge. They have the spending power, the pensions, the houses; above all, they vote. Call us hideous and disgusting if you want, they will say, and we shall honour your right to offend us. But prick us and we still bleed. We have our pride. We are going to be around for longer and longer – and we are going to cost you dear. Would it not be better just to call people people, and find something relevant to say of them as humans?

As east Aleppo falls to Bashar al-Assad’s murderous regime, the postmortem has begun. How could this sickening onslaught and its miserable human cost have been avoided? All too predictably, fingers point back at the culprits of 2013, those who prevented the west from bombing Assad’s forces. Those who backed the wars in Iraq and Libya feel tainted by the bloodshed in the calamities that followed. They accept that the killing fields of Iraq and the disintegrated state of Libya substantially weakened the moral case for western intervention. The horror of Aleppo presents the counter-argument: the cost of inaction. Those who opposed intervention are also stained with blood, goes the argument. It feels grubby to enter such a debate as Aleppo burns, but the revision of history demands a response.

Let us be clear. Assad and Vladimir Putin are responsible for heinous crimes. Social media abounds with their apologists, those who think they are so radical, the arch-critics of western imperialism, but who are actually both hypocrites and a moral disgrace. Yesterday’s front page of the Morning Star rightly provoked revulsion when it described Aleppo’s fall as a “liberation”. When the US pummels countries with bombs, such apologists would never dream of denying civilian casualties. When Russia and its allies are responsible, they echo the language of the most ardent neocon: that the dead in Aleppo are not civilians but terrorists; that civilian deaths are either inventions or entirely the responsibility of rebel militia; that civilians are all rejoicing at their “liberation”. On Tuesday Syria’s ambassador to the United Nations, Bashar Jaafari, held up a photograph of a kindly soldier helping a woman from a truck. “This is a Syrian soldier,” he claimed. “She is a woman fleeing eastern Aleppo.” In the age of the internet, such lies are unwise. It was swiftly discovered that this was, in fact, a woman in Falluja, in neighbouring Iraq, being helped by state militia.

Falluja itself is a reminder of the moral bankruptcy of those who criticise western imperialism but apologise for Russia. They were the first to – rightly – denounce US forces who assaulted the city in 2004, using white phosphorus as they did so, a substance that can burn down to the bone. And yet they deny an even worse atrocity today, because it is not being committed by the US. The UN has received credible evidence of up to 82 Aleppo civilians being shot dead where they stood. Amnesty International speaks of “reports that civilians – including children – are being massacred in cold blood”, and that Russian-backed Syrian forces “have repeatedly displayed a callous disregard for international humanitarian law”.

Up to 100,000 civilians are said to be crammed into an area of no more than two square kilometres: Lina Shami, an activist in Aleppo, reports there are “no safe areas” and that civilians are “threatened with field executions or are dying under bombing”. Russian bombing has been indiscriminate, annihilating local infrastructure. Yes, what began as a democratic struggle in Syria more than five years ago has been sabotaged by Islamist extremists – such as Islamic State, which came in from post-invasion Iraq – but Aleppo had a democratically elected council and independent civil society, now lost.

Are those who opposed military intervention against Assad in 2013, before the west turned its firepower on his Islamist extremist opponents, to blame? Here is what the then prime minister, David Cameron, told the House of Commons in 2013 in the debate before proposed intervention. “It is not about taking sides in the Syrian conflict, it is not about invading, it is not about regime change, and it is not even about working more closely with the opposition: it is about the large-scale use of chemical weapons and our response to a war crime – nothing else.” Whatever the argument for larger-scale intervention – and why it would have been opposed, because of Iraq and Libya, because of the ascendant extremist groups in Syria’s conflicts – it wasn’t even on the table.

Neither was it proposed by the US president, Barack Obama. As the New York Times reported in August 2013, action was considered to “deter and degrade” Assad’s “ability to launch chemical weapons” – but it was explicitly not about regime change or even “forcing him to the negotiating table”.

Nothing about specific areas of Syria, nothing about the rebels. It was explicitly sold as a limited operation focused entirely on chemical weapons. Yes, there was the obvious fear that this would mean creeping direct military involvement, and there is no precedent of western military intervention in the Arab world ending in anything other than disaster. It was, nonetheless, not what was debated.

There are, however, concrete actions that the west could be undertaking now. As Mark Boothroyd from Syria Solidarity Movement UK tells me, the case for British humanitarian airdrops in Aleppo and elsewhere is overwhelming. These would show support for people who are besieged, whom Assad and his Russian backers are trying to starve out. A UN-monitored evacuation plan needs to be put in place. Russia needs to come under pressure for its criminal behaviour in Syria – with further sanctions considered.

Syria is a reminder of the need for consistency. Those of us who passionately opposed the disastrous western wars in Iraq and Libya are not apologists for Putin or Assad. Similarly, those who denounce the opponents of western intervention should have far more humility about Iraq and Libya: the hundreds of thousands dead, the sectarian conflict, the millions displaced and traumatised, the extremist groups flourishing in the chaos. They should speak out about the west’s alliance with a head-chopping dictatorship such as Saudi Arabia, which exports extremism - including to Syria - and which is butchering Yemeni civilians with British-made bombs.

If you oppose war crimes, if you oppose the murder of innocent civilians, you should speak out about whoever is responsible. There is no contradiction in opposing the crimes of western or Russian foreign policy, or in denouncing both the bombs of Syria and of Saudi Arabia. As I say, call it consistency. Or perhaps a better word is humanity.