http://www.startribune.com/feds-slam-brakes-on-copper-nickel-mine-near-boundary-waters/406830306/
http://www.startribune.com/trump-princelings-guarantee-corruption-scandal-and-soon/406845766/
http://www.startribune.com/u-s-must-recognize-russia-as-a-growing-global-threat/406632596/


In a major victory for environmentalists, the federal government said it will not renew the expired mineral leases of Twin Metals Minnesota, saying its proposed copper-nickel mine in northern Minnesota poses too great a risk of contaminating the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness.

"The Boundary Waters is a national treasure, special to the 150,000 who canoe, fish and recreate there each year, and is the economic life blood to local businesses that depend on a pristine natural resource," U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said in Thursday morning's announcement.

The ruling slams the brakes on one of two copper-nickel mines proposed for northern Minnesota, and is likely to intensify a statewide debate between advocates of the region's storied mining industry and those would protect the rare and much-loved forest wilderness.

A Forest Service spokeswoman said the decision is not unprecedented, but added: "It is uncommon for the Forest Service to withhold consent for hard rock mining lease renewals, except in situations like this where there are unique and irreplaceable environmental values at risk."

A spokesman for Twin Metals said the company was studying the decision and would comment shortly.

The announcement went much further than stopping the $2.8 billion underground copper-nickel mine that Twin Metal wants to build. The U.S. Forest Service said it also wants to protect 234,000 acres outside the Boundary Waters in northeastern Minnesota from any mining — an expanse considerably larger than what was covered by Twin Metal's two mineral leases.

The Forest Service said it has applied to the Secretary of the Interior to withdraw the 234,000 acres, all of which is inside Minnesota's Superior National Forest. A final decision on that could take up to two years.

A USDA official said the Forest Service made its decision after hearing from about 30,000 people, including former Vice President Walter Mondale and residents who attended listening sessions in Ely and Duluth in July. Minnesota Gov. Mark Dayton has said the state won't authorize minerals exploration near the Boundary Waters.

The much-anticipated ruling produced instant reactions across Minnesota's political and environmental communities.

Ely Mayor Chuck Novak called the decision a "circumvention of law," referring to the 1978 Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness Act. "I'm beyond unhappy," Novak said. "Where are you going to get the copper you're going to put in your cell phones and computers?"

Rebecca Rom, an Ely native and retired attorney who spearheaded the national Campaign to Save the Boundary Waters, said she was "tremendously excited."

"It's very reassuring and rewarding to hear that the voice of the people and good science prevailed," Rom said. And in a reference to the incoming Trump administration, she said: "Protecting the Boundary Waters has been a Democratic and Republican priority for the past 100 years."

Gov. Mark Dayton called the announcement "tremendous news for the protection of the BWCA, a crown jewel in Minnesota and a national treasure.'' Dayton added: "It is important to note that this decision is not in opposition to mining, but in defense of a pristine and priceless environmental wonder.

U.S. Rep. Betty McCollum, a St. Paul DFLer who is active on environmental issues, called the decision "a major victory for Minnesota and the environment.''

The Twin Metals copper-nickel mine project has been a painful flash point on Minnesota's Iron Range in recent years. One of the state's most economically challenged regions, the Range has relied on mining for generations and is eager for more good-paying jobs. The Twin Metals proposal, and one by PolyMet Mining, have kicked off a struggle between those who see a prosperous future in recreation and wilderness and those who say the economic benefits of continued mining are too great to let go.

At issue in copper-nickel mining is the risk from acidic mine drainage and toxic metals that can be produced when the copper-bearing rock is exposed to air and water.

The risk from such drainage is significant because water from the area of the proposed Twin Metals mine naturally flows north into the Boundary Waters and Voyageurs National Park. The result could be "catastrophic" for fish and other wildlife, an Agriculture Department official said in an interview.

Specifically, the Agriculture Department's U.S. Forest Service said it has decided to deny the renewal of Twin Metals' two hard rock mineral leases near the Boundary Waters. As a result, the Bureau of Land Management, which oversees mineral deposits, said it is rejecting Twin Metals' application for renewal.

Whether the decision could be reversed by the incoming Trump administration is unclear. A BLM official said the decision is final and not subject to any appeal. The mining company's only option now is to sue, the official said, something Twin Metals has already done.

In September, Twin Metals sued the federal government in U.S. District Court in Minnesota over lack of action on the leases. It accused the government of suddenly changing its position regarding automatic renewal of the long-held mineral leases it has used to drill and prospect for the proposed mine. The leases were first issued in 1966, the company argued, "with a right of unlimited, successive 10-year renewals."

Twin Metals is owned by Chilean mining giant Antofagasta PLC. In the complaint the company said it has spent more than $400 million developing its underground mine project, which would lie between Ely and Babbitt. It says it has discovered the largest untapped copper and nickel deposit in the world, estimated to be worth more than $40 billion.

The federal government has asked for the lawsuit to be dismissed.

The process of deciding to officially withdraw the 234,000 acres of land in Superior National Forest from mining involves extensive public input and scientific work that must be completed within two years. During that two year period there can be no mining activity.

The move affects about 46 other applications for various types of applications for exploration. The Twin Metals mineral leases were the only active leases on that land, officials said.

In the announcement Thursday, U.S. Interior Secretary Sally Jewell called the decisions to stop the mine and withdraw the 234,000 acres "the right action to take."

"There's a reason that the Boundary Waters is one of the most visited wilderness areas in America: it's an incredible place."

President-elect Donald Trump is peddling the notion that he can let his sons run his businesses but make no “new” deals after he is inaugurated. On Wednesday, he held a meeting of tech giant chief executives in which three of his adult children and his son-in-law participated.

Ethics experts were flabbergasted. “Donald Trump’s children aren’t just family, they are tasked with running his business completely separate from his running the government. What we’ve seen so far is not an administration avoiding the appearance of conflicts of interest but one actively courting it,” Jordan Libowitz of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington. He continued, “The president-elect of the United States just brought in the heads of many of America’s largest companies to meet with him and the executives of his personal business. He is relying on the senior leadership of his business to help him pick Cabinet officials.” Libowitz added, “There is no explicable reason for his children to be so involved with the running of the government if their focus on the health of Trump’s business interests is what is supposed to allow him to avoid conflicts.” He reiterated what virtually every ethics expert has said: “If he is serious about a separation of government and personal business, he needs to sell the business outside of his family and place the assets in a blind trust.”

Trump seems to be intentionally and publicly blurring the line between his own finances and government business. “The first principle of avoiding corruption and illegality and wrongdoing is to maintain bright lines,” ethics expert Norman Eisen of the Brookings Institution told me in a phone interview. “His mixing of family business with the business of the U.S. is unprecedented.” He observed, “This is what we see in oligarchies, like with China’s princelings. We don’t expect princelings to be roaming the halls of the White House.”

The Trump transition ethics code expressly states, “I will disqualify myself from involvement in any particular transition matter which to my knowledge may directly conflict with a financial interest of mine, my spouse, minor child, partner, client or other individual or organization with which I have a business or close personal relationship. Where there is no such direct conflict, but there may be an appearance of a conflict, I will address this issue for resolution to the 1/8President Elect Transition Team3/8 General Counsel. I currently have no knowledge of any such conflicts.” We do not know if Trump’s adult children or son-in-law signed the document, but if they have it would seem Ivanka already violated it in sitting in the meeting Japan’s prime minister. Reports have also surfaced that Trump’s sons are involved in vetting nominees. The separation between business and government seems to be, just as we imagined, nonexistent.

If any of the Trump children or Jared Kushner engage in any matters on the Trump organization’s behalf with any of the tech companies in the room (or others they have interacted with during the transition) that too could be a violation — at the very least, the appearance of a conflict of interest. Can the four of them seriously claim that neither they personally nor on behalf of any Trump business have dealings with the companies (e.g. IBM, Apple, Microsoft, Google) or the governments (and their owned entities) whose representatives the princelings may have met with? Their mere presence in the room conveys to business execs and the entire world that Trump’s sons, who will run his business, are among his closest advisers. The Trump transition team did not respond to our inquiry asking if any of the children or Kushner signed the code of ethics document.

Meanwhile, on Wednesday, Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-Md., the ranking member on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and several other Democrats held a press event on Trump’s ethical problems. They publicly implored Republicans to step up to the plate. So far we see no evidence that Republicans plan on doing so in the short term.

As Eisen put it, this all “augurs very ill” for the Trump presidency. “I’m disappointed as an American,” he said. “At the rate this is going 1/8Trump3/8 won’t make it through the first year without a major scandal — multiple scandals.” Meanwhile, Republicans whistle past the ethical graveyard.


Allegations that the Russian government tried to influence America’s election are extraordinarily serious — “the political equivalent to 9/11,” according to Michael Morell, the former acting director of the CIA.

The coming congressional investigation should be bipartisan and bicameral, and should focus not just on the election allegations but also on the threat Russian President Vladimir Putin poses to geopolitical stability. This is especially important now that President-elect Donald Trump has repeatedly signaled his intent to reset relations with Russia — something the administrations of both George W. Bush and Barack Obama tried to limited degrees.

“We have stabilized Europe since the end of World War II first by establishing NATO and encouraging the growth of the European Union and then by winning the Cold War,” John E. Herbst, former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine, told an editorial writer. “... The free part of Europe that has democracy and an open society and an open economy has moved steadily eastward. This has led to unprecedented stability in the world because Europe is a place of peace, and led to unprecedented prosperity which has been very good for the United States. Mr. Putin wants to destroy that Europe.”

In fact, he’s attempted to destroy it through force. That was evident first in Georgia in 2008 and in 2014 with Russia’s illegal annexation of Crimea and thinly veiled military campaign in eastern Ukraine. It should not be forgotten that when the Soviet Union dissolved — a liberation of millions that Putin once called the “greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the [20th] century” — Ukraine was a major nuclear weapons power, but gave up its arsenal with guarantees of its sovereignty. Allowing Russia to then cleave a portion of the country with impunity is the wrong signal to send to Iran, North Korea and other nations amid rising concerns about proliferating nuclear weapons.

Russia risks other armed confrontations by engaging in military provocations throughout Europe. And Moscow has meddled in other European democracies, too, as it seeks to upend the postwar liberal order in part by abetting populist revolts that result in illiberal leaders who are skeptical, or even hostile, to Western institutions designed for continental cohesion and to counter Soviet, and now Russian, aggression.

Moscow’s malevolence extends beyond Europe. Putin’s immoral enabling of the Bashar Assad regime in Syria — which is widely accused of having committed war crimes — has led to extraordinary suffering by millions. Further, the carnage contributes to the Mediterranean migration crisis that exacerbates the European political upheaval Putin seeks.

On the other end of the world, Putin has aggressively asserted Russian claims to the resource-rich Arctic, which presents another sphere of potential confrontation with Western powers. And of course, Russia remains a nuclear weapons superpower, let alone an increasingly irresponsible cyber-weapons power, too.

The U.S. should seek peaceful relations with Russia. But Congress, Trump and the American people should not dismiss the election allegations as a partisan issue, nor should they fail to recognize the direct threat that Russian aggression poses to the global order.